Analyse Plugin for Notepad++                                             DE 2020-01

This Plugin will help you to search for more than one search pattern at a time.

Add the different search patterns to the configuration dialog and press [search]. 
As result you will find all matching lines in the result window and in the main 
window matching lines are marked.
All patterns can have a different search type e.g. regular expression or normal 
text same as the find dialog in NotePad++ (see manual in menu "?")
Additionally you may want to blend out a sub set of a search pattern. For this you
can check the "hide" option which results in hiding of that line or text from the
search result. The text is still there and clipboard copy will still hold all text.
To hint that a line was found once, the line number remains in the result window.
You can also give colours the different searches to better distinguish which line
belongs to which pattern. The colouring is done topline first and bottom line last.
If a pattern is found twice, the lower pattern defines the colour. You can also 
give each line a comment e.g. what this pattern helps to find.
The Analyse Configuration Dialog handles the list of search patterns and save or 
load the list. You can adjust the different search patterns with following buttons:

---- Buttons ----
[Add]       Puts actual setting of the upper part into a new line in the table.
            If a line was marked in the table the line is added underneath.
[Update]    Copies the dialog data into the marked line of the table.
[Delete]    Removes the line actually marked.
[  ^  ]     Moves the selected pattern one step up in the list.
[  v  ]     Moves the selected pattern one step down in the list.
[Order]     Re-orders the list of patterns according the selected column in alpha-
            bethical ordering. The column Order becomes only expanded if at least
            one pattern contains text in Order field. Option "apply order# to list"
            numerates the complete column from top to down with current order
[Clear]     Removes all patterns and search result at once.
[Load]      Allows loading a list of search patterns from disk.
            Prepend / Append allows concatenation of patterns to the current 
            pattern list. Load replaces the current patterns.
[Save]      Allows saving a list of search patterns to disk.
[Search]    Starts the search of all previously changed patterns.
            If no pattern exists the actual settings are made to one line of 
            pattern. If only one line exists and actual settings are different,
            the line is updated before starting the search.

---- Search Options ----
Search Type:    Same as in find dialog; chose the type how to search.
                Here an interesting feature is that \r\n can be used to search for 
                more than one line! Test it with normal find dialog in the editor 
                and use the option "escaped".
                All types are the same in normal NotePad++ find see also the help
                manual in menu "?" of NotePad++. NPP uses regex features that can
                search beyond end of a line. Use rgx_multiline to enable this mode. 
Case:           Same as in find dialog; case sensitive or not.
Whole Word:     Same as in find dialog; search for whole word or parts
Do Search:      Allows to temporarily switching off this pattern
                (remove from search result but not the pattern from config list).
Comment:        Useful for info what this pattern helps to find.

---- Visualization Options ----
These options can be updated without activating a re-search
Hide Text:      If on, the found pattern is made invisible in result line. The text
                is still there but editors hidden attribute is enabled.
Colour FG/BG:   The result window text becomes coloured in foreground
                and background herewith. You can use pre-configured
                colours or select own custom colors from colour config
                dialogue.
                If a result text is catched by several patterns, the
                colour of the last pattern in the list is used.
                The maximum of maintainable colour combinations is 119!
                All further colour pattern will get the default colour.
Selection on:   Decides if the found text or the whole line shall be
                coloured / hidden.

---- Mouse Events ----
 - Configuration table -
Dragging columns:   To configure your personal preferred order and column widths
                    of the configuration table. The values will be persisted in 
                    analyseplugin.ini file. To reset, click the entry 
                    "reset layout..." in context menu below the headine.
Left mouse click:   Copies the actual data of the clicked line into the
                    configuration dialog for editing. Click [update] to put the 
                    changes back to the marked line in the list.
Double click:       Toggles the current line to be searched or not.
Right mouse click:  Opens the context menu.
                    The context menu works on the marked line and has additional
                    entries which refer contextually to this lines data.

 - Result window -
Double click:       Moves the main window cursor position to the corresponding line
                    Via option you ca decide if the text cursor shall be in the
                    edit window or in the search result win.
Right mouse click:  Opens the context menu.
Ctx: Copy           Copies the selected text into clip board in two formats:
                    1. clear text 2. RTF format if a receiving app e.g. WordPad
                    is capable for RTF the text will preserve the fg and bg colors.
Ctx: Select All     Puts the selection on the complete result text.
Ctx: Find...        The find dialog in result window is optimized for the search 
                    patterns. Click on one of the currently defined patterns right
                    to search for exactly this instances here.

Ctx: Save to file...  Binds the result window to a text file as output. Whenever
                    the search result changes it gets written into the text file.
Ctx: Save once as Richtext... Saves the current colored results in .rtf format
Ctx: Word Wrap      Enables / disables the word wrap in the result window. This
                    setting get persisted over sessions.
Ctx: Show line numbers Enables / disables the visualization of line numbers. Due to
                    that line numbers are embedded into text it requires a research.
Ctx: Options...     Allows easy access to the AP option dialog.
Ctx: matching patterns  This is a listing section with as many entries of patterns
                    which have been matching on this line in the order as defined
                    in pattern list -> last entry defines the colors

---- Analyse Plugin Options Dialog ----
The Analyse Plugin has an additional dialog for setting the config. All config
data is getting persisted into AnalysePlugin.ini in the plugin-config folder.

The options are:
 - Default Values -      Defines the default values used in the find config 
                         when creating new patterns. Also custom colors in the
                         color picker are stored persistently.
 - Behaviour -
Use Bookmarks in text:   Toggles creation of bookmarks in edit window.
Auto update on modify:   Toggles if changes shall be detected (e.g. in monitored
                         files) and re-run the search.
Synchronize view scrolling: Toggles if scrolling in search or edit window shall
                         be in sync with the other and vice versa.
Dbl-Click jumps to EditView: Toggles if the text input focus shall be moved to 
                         the edit window or stay in search result window.
Action on Enter:         You can decide how the plugin shall react on pressing 
     the search button (or Enter), when the search text has been modified:
     You may choose either discard the modified text and 'just search'; in this 
     case the modified search text will become replaced with the text of the 
     actually selected line's search text. If you choose 'update line' than the 
     will be copied into the marked line and searched for. If your choice is 
     'add line' the modified search text will be taken as an additional search 
     pattern and is amended to the search list. In this setting changing other 
     options will be treated like update line, as normally it does not make sense 
     to search for the same text twice.
Recently used config files: Controls the max length of the context menu in find 
     pattern configuration list.
Editor context menu [add command]: Is actually not a config in AP but in Notepad++
     The button opens an extra window that describes the proposed content of the 
     context menu config file from Notepad++. Read this automatically opened file 
     to understand more about this Notepad++ feature.

 - Result Window Font -
Name: This combobox allows to explicitly select the font that shall be used for the 
     result window. E.g. select Courier to have the window mono spaced formatting. 
     The default system font is selected if the field is empty. Size Controls the 
     font size for the result window.
Show line numbers in result: Controls if the text in the result window shall
     contain the original line number from the search text.
Word wrap mode in result: Allows to use the same word wrap mode as in edit window.

The [OK] button will take over the values into the different places and stored it 
persistently.

If you have any question, comment or concern, please seek the project discussion 
and ticket lists on https://sourceforge.net/projects/analyseplugin/

Best Regards,
Mattes H. mattesh(at)gmx.net

